---
layout: post
title:  "Week 2: Formatted Poetry"
date:   2017-02-05 00:10:23 +0500
categories: [exercises]
---

# Exercise 2: Formatted Poem
Create an HTML document with a poem (or song) and style it with CSS. The poem you use can be anything you decide, as long as it has multiple stanzas (and is a different poem than the one from my example). You can continue working with what you started in class, or make a new one— up to you, but there are some new things which I'd like you to incorporate:

- Use an ordered list to represent each individual stanza in your poem.
- Besides just the poem text itself, your page should include the title of the poem, the author of the poem, a short paragraph of text with info about the author (this can be pulled straight from Wikipedia or somewhere, or something you wrote yourself, doesn't matter). Feel free to include any other elements in your document as well, such as an image or images to go along with the poem or bio text, perhaps a link to a Wikipedia page about the poem/author, or anything else you may come up with.
- Your CSS must visually differentiate the actual poem text from the author bio text. Think about creating some contrast by styling the list items of the poem somehow differently from the paragraphs of the bio text.
- Use at least one custom font-family that you setup with a @font-face declaration. For now, you don't have to worry about needing multiple types of font files or anything complicated— you can just use a .otf file and that will be sufficient. The tutorial I've included a link to may come in handy. Next week, we'll learn about hosted type and a less tedious approach for working with non-web-safe fonts.

The main goal this week is to experiment with what you can do using only basic CSS, focussing on controlling typography. In addition to colors and some outliers like list-style-type, the properties that should be on your radar are things like font-size, font-style, font-weight, text-decoration, text-transform, line-height, and letter-spacing.
Next week, we will start learning about some CSS properties that can be used to control how various HTML elements are spaced apart from one another. If you'd like to begin exploring these properties on your own, take a look at margin and padding!
